Since the beginning of the study of linguistics, numerous attempts at defining what a word is have
been made, with many different criteria.[5] However, no satisfying definition has yet been found to
apply to all languages and at all levels of linguistic analysis. It is, however, possible to find
consistent definitions of "word" at different levels of description.[4]: 6  These include definitions
on the phonetic and phonological level, that it is the smallest segment of sound that can be theoretically
isolated by word accent and boundary markers; on the orthographic level as a segment indicated by blank spaces
in writing or print; on the basis of morphology as the basic element of grammatical paradigms like inflection,
different from word-forms; within semantics as the smallest and relatively independent carrier of meaning in
a lexicon; and syntactically, as the smallest permutable and substitutable unit of a sentence.[2]: 1285 
In some languages, these different types of words coincide and one can analyze, for example, a "phonological
word" as essentially the same as "grammatical word". However, in other languages they may correspond to elements
of different size.[4]: 1  Much of the difficulty stems from the eurocentric bias, as languages from outside
of Europe may not follow the intuitions of European scholars. Some of the criteria developed for "word" can only
be applicable to languages of broadly European synthetic structure.[4]: 1-3  Because of this unclear status,
some linguists propose avoiding the term "word" altogether, instead focusing on better defined terms such as
morphemes.[6] Dictionaries categorize a language's lexicon into individually listed forms called lemmas.
These can be taken as an indication of what constitutes a "word" in the opinion of the writers of that language.
This written form of a word constitutes a lexeme.[2]: 670-671  The most appropriate means of measuring the
length of a word is by counting its syllables or morphemes.[7] When a word has multiple definitions or multiple
senses, it may result in confusion in a debate or discussion.[8] Phonology. One distinguishable meaning of the
term "word" can be defined on phonological grounds. It is a unit larger or equal to a syllable, which can be
distinguished based on segmental or prosodic features, or through its interactions with phonological rules.
In Walmatjari, an Australian language, roots or suffixes may have only one syllable but a phonologic word must
have at least two syllables. A disyllabic verb root may take a zero suffix, e.g. luwa-ø 'hit!', but a
monosyllabic root must take a suffix, e.g. ya-nta 'go!', thus conforming to a segmental pattern of Walmatjari
words. In the Pitjantjatjara dialect of the Wati language, another language form Australia, a word-medial
syllable can end with a consonant but a word-final syllable must end with a vowel.[4]: 14 
In most languages, stress may serve a criterion for a phonological word. In languages with a fixed stress,
it is possible to ascertain word boundaries from its location. Although it is impossible to predict word
boundaries from stress alone in languages with phonemic stress, there will be just one syllable with primary
stress per word, which allows for determining the total number of words in an utterance.[4]: 16 
Many phonological rules operate only within a phonological word or specifically across word boundaries.
In Hungarian, dental consonants /d/, /t/, /l/ or /n/ assimilate to a following semi-vowel /j/, yielding
the corresponding palatal sound, but only within one word. Conversely, external sandhi rules act across
word boundaries. The prototypical example of this rule comes from Sanskrit; however, initial consonant
mutation in contemporary Celtic languages or the linking r phenomenon in some non-rhotic English dialects
can also be used to illustrate word boundaries.[4]: 17 
It is often the case that a phonological word does not correspond to our intuitive conception of a word.
The Finnish compound word pääkaupunki 'capital' is phonologically two words (pää 'head' and kaupunki 'city')
because it does not conform to Finnish patterns of vowel harmony within words. Conversely, a single phonological
word may be made up of more than one syntactical elements, such as in the English phrase I'll come, where I'll
forms one phonological word.[3]: 13:618 
Lexemes. A word can be thought of as an item in a speaker's internal lexicon; this is called a lexeme. However,
this may be different from the meaning in everyday speech of "word", since one lexeme includes all inflected
forms. The lexeme teapot refers to the singular teapot as well as the plural teapots. There is also the question
to what extent should inflected or compounded words be included in a lexeme, especially in agglutinative
languages. For example, there is little doubt that in Turkish the lexeme for house should include nominative
singular ev and plural evler. However, it is not clear if it should also encompass the word evlerinizden 'from
your houses', formed through regular suffixation. There are also lexemes such as "black and white" or
"do-it-yourself", which, although consisting of multiple words, still form a single collocation with a set
meaning.[3]: 13:618 
